# Group/Project Name: FitQuest

#### Q1: What are you planning to build?

Our team is planning to build a physical fitness multiplayer game on the web.  As a group, we wanted to attempt to solve the problem of an unhealthy work/school-life balance.  Specifically, we wanted to find a solution to motivate people to workout and maintain good physical health.  One observation our group realized was that people tend to be more inclined to workout/do sports with friends/family.  Going along this observation, we are planning to build an online game that allows users to compete against other users to try and gain as many points as possible by performing physical challenges (reaching x number of steps in a single day etc), with the goal of accumulating points to finish atop a leaderboard.  From there, users can decide which fitness challenges to go for with the goal of gaining as much points as possible, while also staying fit in the process.  We plan to implement private lobbies, which can allow friend/family groups to compete against each other while also staying physically fit.  As for the challenges, we plan to create an AI challenge generator, whose role is to create different challenges of varying difficulties, with more strenuous challenges being more rewarding in point value.  These challenges will vary in type, including but not limited to cardio/running based challenges, performing reps with weights for different muscle groups, push-ups/sit-ups.  Although we don't plan to offer material prizes to users who are at the top of the leaderboard, we hope that our product can help add an element of friendly competition which will motivate our users to continue on their fitness journey.

#### Q2: Who are your target users? (2-3 personas)

Reference Agile - Personas.pdf 


#### Q3: Why would your users choose your product? What are they using today to solve their problem/need?

As university students, we understand that academics can take a toll on one's physical and mental health.  From stress caused by trying to catch up on work and extended periods of time working on assignments, we feel that students often struggle to find the motivation and time to work out and maintain good physical health.  Throughout our experiences in university, we noticed that a good number of students perform physical activity in groups.  Whether through working out in the gym in small groups or participating in team sports, company can be a great motivator on working out.  So in hopes of helping find our users find that "spark" to start or continue working out, we decided to base our solution through company and competition.  

By creating a sense of competition within our games, we hope that this will inspire our users to step out of their comfort zone and work out.  One benefit that our product has is the randomization of fitness challenges during the game period, which can allow users to do challenges that work on different parts of their body.  For instance, challenges can range from cardio-based to work on different core muscle groups, and can be used to introduce beginners to possible steps they can add to their workouts outside of the game.  Furthermore, while we want to challenge our users, we believe that another key benefit of our product is our accessibility to all levels of gym users.  From people who just got their first gym membership to seasoned gym veterans, our games can be used and enjoyed by people from different fitness backgrounds due to our multi-level challenge system providing a nice balance between risk and reward.

Two more benefits that come with our app is companionship and personal goal-setting.  Starting with companionship, partaking in our games with a group of your friends can be an enjoyable experience depending on the group dynamic between said friend group.  Similar to online games such as Jackbox and sports fantasy leagues, we envision friend groups to use this application as a fun way to track their fitness journeys.  We hope that when friend groups play our game, this can help keep each member motivated to continue working out in hopes of maintaining their status on the leaderboard.  Finally, with goal setting, our application tracks a user's personal best score (points accumulated within a single game).  This can give users an extra level of competition to work towards, in addition to competing against other users.  Overall, we believe that the main benefits of our game lie in our game being relevant to people of different fitness backgrounds and helping our users create or modify their fitness goals.

#### Q4: What does "DONE" means to your Team 
 * The whole team needs to agree as to what ”done” means for the features you will
   implement.
 * Definition of done applies to all userstories

### Highlights

Key Decisions

Preface
During sprint 0, our team met at least once a week to dicusss key decisions (some of the located below) that determine the blueprint of our product.  In addition to our weekly meetings, we also had in-person meetings in the university as well as text conversations through Slack and Discord.  Here are three decisions that our team discussed during these last couple of weeks:

1) Alternative Ideas - While our team already knew we wanted to build a product related to physical fitness, our original idea was to build a "one-stop shop" for workout planning.  We brainstormed multiple features for this app including but not limited to: a calorie counter, a space for users to share their workout plans, and a forum to ask gym related questions.  However, we soon noticed a couple of factors that ultimately fueled our decision to not continue with this.  First off, we realized that a lot of our features are already implemented and widely used.  For instance, Reddit provides forums that talk about gym related questions and also provides a space for users to converse with each other about their workout regimens.  Furthermore, we felt that this idea would not exactly be great in terms of originality and practical use as most users would probably stick to places like Reddit and already existing calorie counters, even after learning about what our app had to offer.  We ultimately decided to go towards a different route and develop a game based on physical fitness.  We decided to "gamify" our idea as we all agreed that people tend to be more motivated to work out when participating alongside their peers and adding a (hopefully healthy) sense of competition can provide further motivation to keep maintaining their physical health.

2) Multi-Tiered Challenge System - While brainstorming the main premise of our game, our team cycled through multiple options on how to gamify working out with friends.  One idea that we considered was that each participant in a game would go through the same workout program and points would be awarded depending on their performance on each stage of the workout.  However, we decided to discontinue the idea as this would force all participants to go at the same pace, which can feel intimidating for beginners and tedious for gym veterans.  Subsequently, we were able to find an alternative idea still involving the points system, but providing users some autonomy.  Instead of everyone doing the same challenges at a given time, we decided to include a randomized challenge system, giving users the option to select challenges out of a group to participate in.  These challenges range in type of physical activity (cardio, lifting.), point value, and difficulty, with harder challenges receiving higher point values.  Furthermore, we plan to create a "generator" for these challenges and plan to make different challenges rotate on a daily basis, creating some spontaneity, and making the game more fun.  We also thought about our users, as having this multi-tiered challenge can allow users to add some variety to their workout routines, while also choosing the challenge difficulty based on their comfort level.

3) Choice of Web Framework - When our team was discussing about what technologies to use, we wanted to find applications that we felt we could learn and apply within a short period of time.  However, we also wanted to find opportunities to learn about new products and essentially, step out of our comfort zone.  We ultimately decided on three main applications: React (for the front-end), Django (for the back-end), and PostgreSQL (for the database), trying to find a balance between the two thoughts above.  For the front end, we ultimately went for React, as it's a tool commonly used in the industry and includes principles that are used in other languages such as JavaScript and HTML.  We decided to go with Django for our backend, as not a lot of us had experience with Django, which gives this project an opportunity to learn it.  Finally, we chose PostgreSQL as our database due to us already having experience with it through CSCC43.  Although we were intrigued by non-relational databases such as neo4j, we felt that using a relational database PostgreSQL would be the most practical option available.
 
 
  

